♪ [music] ♪
First one we are going to deploy to is
something called now, and now is like a
super simple way to host really any kind
of app. They are really good with Docker,
Node, and Static websites, but because
they support Docker you can really host
any type of application on it. In our case
we are going to be hosting our node app
straight away on now, and they have both a
free plan as well as a premium plan.
And this is by far the easiest way to get
an application up and running on the
internet nice and quickly without having
to really worry about any of the server
sidey stuff. So how do we do that? Well
first thing that we need to do is go back
to our package.json and give now just a
little bit of information about what our
application is going to look like. So
let's open up our package.json,
and by the way, you can now change the
name of your actual thing to something
that you much prefer. I said, "Dang that's
delicious," but you could call that
something like, "Wes-loves-snacks," or you
could name it whatever you like and you
can also give it a version 0.0.1. Now all
we want to do is we need to add a new
object to our package.json that has stuff
that is specific to now.sh.
So you're going to go in here and make a
now property. This is JSON this is not
JavaScript so you can't just start saying
now or whatever. You have to use double
quotes, "now" and that is equal to an
object, and make sure you put the quote
after it. Okay so we have our now and
there is just one possible thing that we
need to pass here and that's the .env, and
you can tell it where the environmental
variables are going to be coming from. So
we have this variables.env file,
and I'm going to create a new one, save it
as variables.env.now.
And why is that? Well because we need to
put our different stuff in here.
So I'm going to say this is production.
I'm going to keep the same database.
I'm going to keep the same mail stuff.
The port is going to be 80.
Map key and secret those are all going to
stay the same. Now these are the
environmental variables that are going to
be put onto the server.
However, it is not going to actually
upload this file to the server.
What it will do is it will set them on the
server for us, and then when we actually
deploy our process.env, .node_env,
.database, .mail_user, those are all going
to be available to us. It now has a little
tool that will do that for you if you just
tell it where your environmental file is.
We're going to tell it it's called
variables.env.now, and again, again,
again, this variables.env.now,
because we've put it in out git_ignore. It
will a, not go on github or whatever you
are hosting it on, and b, it will also not
be deployed to now.sh.
And that's really really important because
now.sh by default, if you have the free
plan, it will make your entire application
public, an that's fine because the entire
application is fine to be public except
for this stuff. You don't want to be
showing like I'm showing the world right
now, but after I deploy this, I'm going to
have to change all of my passwords. It
will not deploy your variables.env file or
your variables.env.now file. It will just
put them on the server so that even if you
have a public instance of now, which is
the free plan, it will not be open to the
public. So that's how we have our .env
file. Now what you need to do is go ahead
and sign up for a now account. So I have
already done that. You might have already
done this because we have used
now in some of my other tutorials.
So make sure you are signed up and then
you simply just need to go to your
terminal. You'll need to install now
globally on your system. So the way you do
that is you type NPMinstallnow-g, and what
that will do is it will install globally
on your system. If you're having troubles
with permissions you could always pop a
sudo in front of it, and then go figure
out how to actually fix those permissions
on your computer. Then, I'm not going to
do it because I already have it,
you can test if you already have it with
now-v, and that will show you which
version you have and clearly you must have
a command called now there.
Then you can simply go ahead and type now
and when you hit enter, it's either going
to ask you to sign in with your username
and your password, or it's going to start
the deploy. And type now!
It's going to give you a url,
copy it right to your clipboard
so you can go ahead and view that right
now while we're waiting.
And it's going to upload all of the files
that we have. It's going to prepare the
container. The sync, that was really
quick. I guess because I've done this
before. It generally takes, like, a minute
or two to actually upload all of your
files, and now what it's doing is it's
installing all of the different
pieces of data for us.
It just gave it a start. It's doing...see,
npm start, and then it's running the
command node start. The express is running
on port 80, and the deployment is
complete. You go back here ready, visit
your website. Woohoo! There we go.
Go ahead and click over to some of these.
You can see all of our data that we have
here. We have all of our stores. Because
I'm using my existing data, all of my data
is already there, and they'd be able to go
ahead and log in with any of the other
websites that I have. So that's deploying
to now. Very, very straightforward, not a
whole lot to it. Let's look at some of the
other possible options.
♪ [music] ♪